okay okay here we are
welcome to the Jay s core dev team
weekly sync it's August the 20th 2018
I'm excited I'm not sure why but this is
gonna be fun hopefully cool
so as usual can we please have a new
take a volunteer themselves for doing
the note-taking Thank You Jacob
that's rad you are a constant Rock cool
alright so we clear updates so normally
we go around and everyone gives their
weekly update what they've been doing
what they blocked on and what they are
looking to do this week so first on the
list is Volker would you like to go hi
yes so the first item is actually
something from last week but we have any
time and I've got a small script called
deck builder and so it takes ins text
file as an input and then it builds up a
deck so that's useful if you want to
build some like more complex deck
somehow and it has intentionally no
documentation because I really want to
change it quite a bit but I thought it's
a good backup to operate to github so
it's there and you would get the idea
it's pretty small and then I did wrote
the fiddle graph sing into sub P to P
stuff which ended in a power in a few
pulling Chris making the documentation
of material because yeah it just got
started and and I'm not long and next
week HD is this Thursday on I will be in
Tanzania at a conference that
possibility conference and I've only
await here September 9 so just for
information and so I will be somewhere
in Africa so I won't have internet
connectivity and yet so if you've any
questions ask them so on Wednesday else
they will wait for another three weeks
all right that's all does anyone have
any questions for Volker
can I ask the tag builder what did you
say it was for like what would you use
it for suited so and I needed to do that
they'd need to create something complex
thanks for asking and just to type of
things and and truly like super manual
to basically build up your deck some our
common line and they just edit a style
at Minnesota today so the D is made for
form for testing and playing around with
stuff so I guess it would have been
useful for the IP on the Explorer it
would have been yeah cool cuz yeah okay
um alright sure it's there any other
questions
cool okay who's next on the list Jacob
so last week we did a release of multi
stream select that should prevent people
from seeing already pipes error so the
root cause of that hasn't been
identified but it's likely we're trying
to read when somebody has said we're no
longer reading but at least this should
prevent the crashing from happening so
if you see that happening scream at me
so I can figure out what else is going
on there
we got a release of lid p2p to fix an
issue that Alan resolves with multi
adders throwing errors instead of
calling back there's so that's fixed yay
for stability I've added a small fix for
JSF ipfs API it was the way the HTTP and
HTTPS modules were including requests it
made it impossible to use knock for
mocking out API which I need for some
upcoming work for delegate routing so
that's just a quick small change with
how they're being required to allow not
to work properly so the Lib p2p Factory
is ready to get merged that's got all
the green buttons so hopefully we'll see
that in the next release of JSF EFS I've
got delegate pure routing all tested
with Lib PDP that's looking good I found
some issues with content routing that
I'm fixing for the delegate I should get
those finished today so that should be
in a good state for me to start working
on an example for Jas ipfs on so
hopefully I can get that out this week
as well and then we'll just be blocked
on the go delegate routes being
implemented I started implementing them
in JSI p FS but GSI BFS doesn't have
refs yet so that won't happen until that
happens and then yeah I'll finish up the
pure content routing I'm going to look
into some GS ipfs repo on configuration
updates to help with the interrupts
stuff we're working on but we'll make
sure those are backwards come
and then I'll also start work on the
lippy TP and lipid abuse which state
machine work is weak that isn't any
questions
no that's cool Thank You Jacob that's
all sounds good I'm looking forward to a
lippy tepee switch refactor cool showing
move on then I said let me know of a
question no good ok good so who's next
oh wait that's me okay so I had a busy
week if you're on the All Hands I said
some words about the a module for
discovery in transport using a Lib D web
which is this library for Firefox that
will enable web extensions to do more
pizza pier stuff you should take a look
at the video that is in the linked from
the hackpad what else so yeah there was
a whole bunch of places that I found
that the where the inputs weren't being
validated probably properly and that
would have meant that the demon would
explode and crash rather than so in they
meant that errors were being fro and
rather than called sent via the callback
so that's good and that's sort of
towards my okay are of having a demon
run for 10 days without crashing there
was an issue with object patch RM link
which a fix I think that was because a
dependencies something in the
dependencies changed in a patch version
and the co vmj ipfs was using stuff that
was considered private like it had an
underscore in front of it so anyway the
tests the master started to fail and
then I fixed it up so that's good and
yeah so then released released I HSI
because again with a couple of those
fixes I made and then released it again
with the date recoding argument that
Alex had added for object get so create
a piata fix right so the preload stuff
and
turns out if you disable it the ipfs
node would crash when you started it
which isn't great so I fixed that and
added a test
it's what else create here - yeah right
so npm publish was publishing the disk
folders in the examples directory so
it's I'd previously run some examples
and I created some dist dist artifacts
and when I was hit when I was releasing
JSI PFS they were also being published
along with the the the code to NPM and
someone pointed out that I think Jess
deliver was complaining that who when
you downloaded ipfs it was over 50 Meg's
and it's because of the disk folders in
the examples so I've just added a NPM
ignore to fix to ignore the examples
folder and because I don't think they
need to be in the published package and
that should help with the Jess deliver a
thing and then so what else was there
doing so I'm sort of half working
towards 0:32 release and I've gotten all
but one of the pull requests that are
going into that release in a state where
we can just merge them and so that's
good yes IPS api erased a new major
version of that so that's got a fix for
object get which uses the new data
encoding argument is that is a major
version because the go Ike if it breaks
the possibility of altogether ipfs nodes
and you can't you need to use zero 4.17
for it to work so not clocked on
anything at the moment next thing I need
to do is to Rison you yes so you're
really new jet ipfs with the preload
disabled fix in it that has gone green
on CI so I can do that now and I need to
get that IP and espyo into emotional
state which should should hopefully not
take too long and then actually start
working a nest on
CITV ones and base 42 stuff which I've
made a few a little bit of progress on
already but not enough so that's me does
anyone have any questions
yeah Falconer
would it make sense to open the issue on
worthless knowledge and all court like
the testing people to say that basically
we take all the profiles of all projects
because I could imagine that from sound
it's a difficulty with the state you
should really listen checking me mister
photos yeah yeah I guess that is a good
idea what do you say we'll open it you
you will open the issue I can open it
okay cool areum questions
moving on Travis next please if you all
yeah well you just popped out ah the one
you did not him again somehow
okay well let's skip over him for now
and if he comes back - then we can okay
hi guys so I just came back from a
couple of weeks of vacation so didn't do
pretty much anything so I'm just going
to talk about the next stuff I'll try to
Porsche repo with some of the big data
tests I've worked on the last word and
I'll continue this word this word and
I'll play finish up everything until the
end and also give some love to my repos
that probably needs some cleaning up on
the issues and pull requests and that
will be it for my next week awesome
thank you you got any questions nah
Alex would you like to go next sure I
flow with our to get the data for encode
in PRN we talked about us a little bit
ready just briefly what it is is in
Jason all strings of Unicode
when the objects has been turned into
Jason by the go demon it uses text
encoding for the beta field and that
just spits out raw bytes some of which
can be invalid unicode characters so
then when you're trying to deserialize
that from a string back into an object
and then turn that property into a
buffer you get all kinds of rubbish and
you can't can't get the data out let you
put in so what the data encoding argA
does is let you say give it to me in
base64 instead which is safe to turn it
into a string and back out of string so
that's cool so we got an TFS a while ago
at sign they're released queuing is now
in 4.0 point for point 17 so yeah
technically it does very backwards
compatibility but if you have specific
types of data than any version of code
before that will cause your JavaScript
and to explode and just go worries all
this data anyone cook so we got that in
and that's great then that's been
released so then moving on I fix some
problems with Jenkins whereby that
lovely window saying where you have like
really deeply nested folder names and
when they go I don't know what to do
that and just falls over so that was fun
so changing the building code to delete
node modules folders deeply nested a
mortgage holders
I've been doing some profiling on case
IVFs found a spend an awful lot of time
creating jason objects or just objects
that will then return from to Jason so
what was Volker to get APR into IP OD
Doug pb2 just too lazy so when you are
requesting the jason objects then it
will actually do the calculation if it
hasn't been done before which is cool
put a another PR in to go ipfs to add
the parents flag to the right command so
you don't have to create a directory
before you write to a file in that
directory you can just say parents
called like
make derp so that's been approved but it
hasn't been measure and yes you know a
bunch of tests for NPM on jate on ifs
which is great so I'm blocked on
actually deploying it anywhere because
the infrastructure in my trying to sort
out some amount of you know stable
reliable way of spinning up arbitrary
apps and because lots of people need it
and no one has it so now cuz I'm glad
some now I can't really do any more on
that which is a shame because it's one
of my key 3 R's so I'm gonna Park it and
pick up the other key 3 a cure which is
basically looking at the HTTP API and
making it a bit more sane just try to
you know like unify object and dag API
is that kind of thing and then the fun
bit will be like sticking across go in
front of that afterwards which would be
amazing
yep that's gonna be me hey any questions
if anyone's waving with their video
turned off I mean clearly the classman
thanks Alex um can I just say that the
change to dag PB is what is the thing
that was breaking Jo psyche FS but it
shouldn't have been using the underscore
properties so it's not your fault at all
just my problem to fix
so yeah don't use stuff cos tried it
kids cool so is did did Travis come back
no he's not he's not hit okay and well I
guess you can read his update but thank
you Travis for that and does anyone else
have any other questions or comments
that they'd like to voice now please
sir I'll just give a quick update on
some of the stuff that I was working on
so I implemented egg JSON in JavaScript
last week waiting on a codec value in
the registry but other than that it
basically works and it solves some of
the determinism issues by using a
deterministic jason serialize it which
is nice but that is feeding into an RFC
that we're writing or that I'm writing
up basically just about how to encode
links in different implementations we've
traditionally used these these objects
with a slash in them and we something to
sort of reserve space for that but
ideally we should just be CID instances
and it would thank a lot the API a lot
simpler to use so there's a PR to beg
seaboard to use this kind of form and
don't already uses it and this will kind
of make its way into an RF so you see
Malcolm awesome could you put a link to
dec JSON in the chat for the notes
yeah I'll just update the notes on them
right thank you
yeah it's currently on my on my private
it had on private you know my my
personal you know private repo Oh
in that vein there's a couple issues
that people might be interested on in
the EFS flash community repo one is a
just about sort of blogs and Twitter and
like different we have like a million
communication channels we're trying to
maybe create a new YouTube channel they
can encompass everything and another one
is a pull request to create a project
lifecycle which would basically call out
kind of what levels of maturity that we
think different projects are at so we
have like 300 repos and some of them are
sort of softly deprecated all the way to
you know we're supporting this forever
and we don't really have a good way to
call that out or you can rely on it so
want to check that out
nice I think I think Rob did a whole
bunch of work in kind of categorizing
the repos and at least adding labels to
them so that we could tell what they are
so yeah we couldn't if we could you know
what they're kind of a lifecycle
situation is as well yeah yeah this is
like a slightly more detailed version of
that Rob giving a lot of feedback in
into this as well but basically like we
we especially as we start to spin up
sort of community engineering and even
sort of developer relations we need a
good signal to say like this is ready
for people's attention rather than
trying to push attention towards
projects that we're actually not really
ready for that yet so there's a lot more
work on kind of the earlier lifecycle
and also we need we need a different way
than just saying deprecated to call out
certain things like we we have we have
projects that we are still actively
using and supporting but we know we want
to move past and so we don't want to
encourage new people to adopt them that
they don't have to but it's not actually
deprecated we're actively using and
porting it so we there's some there's
some stuff in there to try to
differentiate like pre deprecated yeah
exactly I mean big TV is like we're
using it's like we we're literally 16
performance issues in it right now each
other that we use it so much but also
like we want people to not use it for
new things
so that's like a harder thing to call it
cool okay any questions for Michael
any other questions in general or Matty
or Mike you want to say anything yep
Mike
muted thank you um yeah I have a
question um so I have a long-term kind
of you know month long goal to create a
demo app that I can use it the
conferences and workshops and stuff that
would basically it's a go live p2p some
kind of demon wrapper around go lip you
to Pete that then would connect to a Jas
Lupita a browser-based Jas lippy tepee
and they would share a pub subtopic and
I'm just wondering is and I also am
hoping to incorporate rust as a third
tier in this system um do we know is
there any reason why that can't work
like a known issue or anything like that
yeah I would I would talk to Travis a
little bit about the work he's been
doing um with the test bed stuff but the
I guess the biggest known issue is that
JSI VFS doesn't have a DHT and kind of
tool to be able to kind of find content
and stuff I mean Jacob can you elaborate
on that
yes so it will we will have delegate
routing pure contact routing at the end
of this quarter so we should be able to
to get some of that there's no reason we
can't get at least the basic if we're
just doing little notes you're just
talking about just doing let p2p nodes
yeah there's no reason which and the
dealin's
yeah I'm gonna create and go and then
they'll they'll talk to that sorry yeah
so one of the things that we actually
have slated for this quarter as well
which probably not going to get done
just because blockers is the actual
getting lit p2p interoperability so we
don't know for sure what's state that
specifically is but we know we have j/s
nodes talking to go nodes and that
worked that's functional so we have the
ability to do it it's just a matter of
what surprises you might find along the
way okay good well that will make it fun
okay so thank you know that's that's
helpful um I'll let you guys know how it
goes
yeah that we're at I'd love to hear I
don't know anything about a rusty
implementation of ipfs I'm guessing that
exists and is only of lit p2p is the
parody guys built a rusted p2p so I'm
gonna try to do an all know zero ipfs
all lib p2p demo slash workshop tutorial
thing and yeah obviously a post all the
code and and some Doc's around a bit so
anyway do you want to try it out before
then go like send it to me I would okay
alright thank you okay um cool does
anyone have any other questions or
anything to add I have one more thing
that I just remembered the organizers
the cold front conference just ping me
about have it they want something like
an introduction to distributed web kind
of stuff talk I'm not available to go to
I think it's in Copenhagen around that
time but if somebody else has a good
sort of intro T web talk that they're
interested in doing
ping me and talk about it